All right here we go.
Let's scale the next date.
Again this is a new step of the general AI framework.
You always have to scale the next day when doing deep reinforcement learning because deeper in Forstmann
learning implies the use of a neural network.
And we should always scale the inputs that feed the new in that work.
So that's why we're doing it now.
And since a state is composed of the three elements the temperature of the server when we have the high
number of users and the rate of data transmission Well we're first going to scale each of the three
elements separately and we'll we'll gather the three of them inside a scaled vector which will be exactly
our new state that will return here.
All right let's do this.
Let's start with the first element so I'm going to introduce here new voidable that I'm going to call
a scaled temperature A.I. which is of course a temperature of the server.
When we have the eye and that is scaled.
And so now how are we going to scale that.
So right now at this time you know when the next date is about to be killed.
Well we have a certain temperature of the eye which is given by this very well self temperature that
AI.
So I'm just going to copy this because we will put that in the formula.
And this is actually this variable self temperature that we have to scale.
You know right now it has its original value and we are going to scale that by normalizing it which
is a classic way of scaling your variable.
So what is normalization.
Normalization just consists of taking the values of your variable then subtracting them by the minimum
value of this variable which will say it will be the minimum temperature of the server and then we'll
divide the difference by the maximum delta of the values that this temperature a variable can take which
will be the maximum temperature of the server minus the minimum temperature of the surface.
So that then the outcome of this formula scale temperature AI will be a value between 0 and 1 which
is exactly what we want for our neural network.
You know it's going to work with values that are all scaled between 0 and 1.
So let's do this let's get first the minimum temperature of the server which is selfmade temperature
and then subtract that to the temperature of the Cirebon we have the selve the temperature A.i.
And now we're going to divide all this by the maximum depth of temperature that can happen in the surface.
That is we can use the following trick.
I just keep it self-determine temperature so I'm going to paste that twice because indeed I'm just going
to replace first of that mean temperature by itself that max temperature and then just add here minus
and that's the maximum Delta I've been talking about.
Know the maximum depth of temperature that can happen on the surface so that you know since the temperature
of the server when we had the like never go beyond the maximum temperature and never go below the minimum
temperature well the numerator here temperature.
I mean temperature will always be lower than this denominator max temperature minus mean temperature
and therefore this value here this fraction will always be a number between 0 and 1 which is the natural
outcome of normalization and which is exactly what we want for new on that work.
There we go.
We did it we normalized the first element of our state the temperature of the server when we had the
high.
And now it's the same for the other two elements.
So I'm going to introduce that new Horrible's skilled number of users and those same.
Well what we want to scale is exactly this current number of users that we computed before some can
get this very well.
Then I'm going to base that here in the parenthesis of the numerator.
Then of course we're going to subtract the minimum number of users that can be connected to the server
which is right here minimum number of you yourself that many number users.
So let's go back down and let's base that here and we're going to divide that of course by again the
maximum Delta users there can be in the server which is well it's use the same trick.
We're going to paste that twice.
I'm going to replace these men here by Max.
And here I'm just going to add a minus.
Right.
All that and efficiency then.
So that scales are second element of the state.
And now let's take care of the third one which is the scaled rate of data OK so exactly the same we're
going to normalize the current rate of data that we computed before which is given by this variable
self current rate of data.
We cannot base that here for the numerator to which we're going to subtract the minimum rate of data
that can be transmitted into the server.
So this one is a year and then again using the same trick for the denominator we're going to paste that
twice and can replace many here by Max and not for you of course the minus right Max read data minus
mean rate data and that scales the rate of data transmission.
Perfect.
So now we have our three elements of the state all skilled.
And so we're ready to make that final vector of these three elements which therefore will give us a
skilled input vector.
So let's do this.
We're going to go that directly the next state because any way we always want our states scale than
you know then we'll return that next date which skilled and then it will feed the neural network no
being propagated into it.
So next date an hour how are we going to create a vector with these three elements.
Well we're going to use the classic following trick by them by I'm taking the shortcut.
B and then we're just going to take the matrix function which to create a vector we can just put our
three elements here that we just get into some square brackets and that's it.
That will just create a vector.
So it's good to know and if you want to create a matrix you know with several columns Well you would
have to add some extra pair of square brackets.
That's not what we want to do here so let's include these three elements of the state starting with
the scale temperature of the server when we have the AI then the scaled number of users in the server
at this specific time t..
When we're updating the environment here we go.
And finally the scaled rate of data transmission which is right here and here we go.
We have our final scaled input state vector which means that now we are ready to return the ultimate
outcome of this whole update on function that we've just made.
That is we're ready to return the next date and therefore here to finish this to finish this whole bit
of method I'm just returning.
Well as we can see the next day the reward and whether the game is over.
And so the next date is the variable next date that we just created.
Then the reward is a variable of our objects so it is selve that reward.
And finally same for gameworld is a variable of our object self.
Game over.
And here we go.
Congratulations.
You did it.
Implementing the update on method updating the whole environment right after an action is played by
the AI.
Congratulations I think that was the biggest function of this case.
Number two we had to implement.
So we did it and now we're just going to finish this first step of the general framework.
Building the environment by making method that seem to reset the environment and that will have to do
before starting each new training book and also will quickly make a method that gives us at any time
the current state the last word and whether the game is over.
Because at some point we'll need that in the training that will be very quick.
Nothing compared to what we just did here.
So we'll do that quickly in the next two tutorials.
And until then enjoy AI.